[ECE 4.2] IPv6 on AWS tutorial, ECE IPv6 Support, installation instructions, load balancers and OS guides (#5602)
elastic/docs-content: deploy-manage/deploy/cloud-enterprise/configure-proxy-protocol.md

---
navigation_title: Proxy Protocol
applies_to:
  deployment:
    ece: ga 4.2
products:
  - id: cloud-enterprise
---

# Configure Proxy Protocol v2 in the ECE proxies [ece-configure-proxy-protocol]

ECE needs the real client address to enforce [IP filtering](/deploy-manage/security/ip-filtering-ece.md) rules and to report client addresses in the [proxy request logs](/deploy-manage/monitor/orchestrators/ece-proxy-log-fields.md). When a load balancer forwards deployment traffic, the ECE proxies receive the load balancer address as the source of every connection unless one of the mechanisms described in [Client IP preservation](./ece-load-balancers.md#ece-client-ip-preservation) is in place.

The two most common combinations are:

* **HTTP (L7) mode**: the load balancer sets the `X-Forwarded-For` header with the client source IP.
* **TCP (L4) mode**: the load balancer sends [Proxy Protocol v2](https://www.haproxy.org/download/2.8/doc/proxy-protocol.txt) metadata, and the ECE proxies must be configured to parse it. This is also the only mechanism that can preserve an [IPv6 client address](./ece-ipv6-support.md).

> This page covers the TCP (L4) path: how to enable Proxy Protocol v2 parsing in the ECE proxies for deployments HTTP traffic, on ports `9200` and `9243`. This is the only Proxy Protocol configuration that ECE exposes. For the other ports, the client IP mechanism is fixed and only configured on the load balancer side, as described in [Port and mode configuration](./ece-load-balancers.md#ece-load-balancer-ports).

Reviewer: Small one: "deployments HTTP traffic" here, but the "Enable" section below uses the (correct) "deployment HTTP traffic".

```suggestion
This page covers the TCP (L4) path: how to enable Proxy Protocol v2 parsing in the ECE proxies for deployment HTTP traffic, on ports `9200` and `9243`. This is the only Proxy Protocol configuration that ECE exposes. For the other ports, the client IP mechanism is fixed and only configured on the load balancer side, as described in [Port and mode configuration](./ece-load-balancers.md#ece-load-balancer-ports).
```

This page covers the TCP (L4) path: how to enable Proxy Protocol v2 parsing in the ECE proxies for {{es}} HTTP traffic, on ports `9200` and `9243`. This is the only Proxy Protocol configuration that ECE exposes. For the other ports, the client IP mechanism is fixed and only configured on the load balancer side, as described in [Port and mode configuration](./ece-load-balancers.md#ece-load-balancer-ports).

:::{note}
In ECE versions earlier than 4.2, Proxy Protocol v2 parsing on the {{es}} HTTP ports is disabled and the installation flags described on this page are not available. If you need the real client address on an earlier version, consider the following options:

* Use [direct source IP preservation](./ece-load-balancers.md#ece-client-ip-preservation) instead, if your load balancer can forward connections without replacing the client source address.
* [Upgrade to ECE 4.2 or later](/deploy-manage/upgrade/orchestrator/upgrade-cloud-enterprise.md), which is the recommended way to use Proxy Protocol v2.

> * Enable Proxy Protocol v2 on your current version by patching the proxy container set directly. Follow KB article XXXX and contact [Elastic Support](/troubleshoot/index.md#contact-us) for assistance with the procedure.

Reviewer 2: Still references 'KB article XXXX '

Author: yeah, sorry... work in progress :)

Reviewer 3: @eedugon WDYT this:

```suggestion
* Enable Proxy Protocol v2 on your current version by patching the proxy container set directly. Follow [our KB article](https://ela.st/ece-configure-ppv2-via-containersets-api) and contact [Elastic Support](/troubleshoot/index.md#contact-us) for assistance with the procedure.
```

I used https://ela.st/ece-configure-ppv2-via-containersets-api to represent the KB public URL - https://support.elastic.co/knowledge/8ceb7ead. By doing so, we can avoid using a random URL and next time even if we do maintenance to the underlying KB, we could simply update the shortened URL to match it easily, and no need to worry about URL going 404.

One more thing, I said `Follow our KB article` instead of using article name directly. I think I'd want to avoid saying the KB article subject directly, because it maybe changed depending on the situation, etc, and it can cause confusion if the subject is changed later. 

Finally, another tech thing is, we don't have containerset API documented in public, so I'd also think we probably don't want to advertise the KB subject directly, because that's the way to configure PPv2 via a non-documented API. I have added a note into KB:

<img width="1621" height="97" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/11db8503-4a8a-42f8-89f7-1264a9d1d975" />
